Hello and welcome back to the course
on Deep Learning.
In the previous tutorial we found out
what Convolutional Neural Networks were all about
and today we are going to dive into Step 1 Convolution.
So, this is the Convolution function.
I know we tried to stay away from mathematics
and keep things intuitive,
but I couldn't help but share this formula for you
because it is so simple.
A Convolution is basically a combined integration
of two functions,
and it shows you how one function modifies the other
modifies the shape of the other,
and if you've done any signal processing
or electrical engineering
or a profession where signal processing is required
you would have inevitably come across
the Convolution function, it is quite popular.
Now once again we're going to keep the mathematics light
or keep them separate,
and if you'd like to get into the math behind
the Convolutional Neural Networks
a great additional read is
Introduction to Convolutional Neural Networks by Jianxin Wu
who is a professor at the Nanjing University in China.
This paper was published literally days ago
like five or six days ago, and it is oriented specifically
at people who are starting out
and beginners who are getting to know
Convolutional Neural Networks
so the mathematics there should be accessible.
I actually emailed Professor Jianxin Wu
and yeah he said his whole goal is
to make,
break the complex things down
so that people who are new to this field can understand.
Also he mentioned that he's got some materials available
on his homepage.
So if you, in the URL, if you just remove the last two parts
and you just go to like slash, w, j, x to that part
that's his homepage
and you'll be able to find more additional tutorials
and materials which haven't been published as papers,
but he uses them in his tutorials
so you might find those useful.
So browse around there if you'd like to get an introduction
into the mathematics behind Convolutional Neural Networks
and kind of build a solid base around that area.
But, we're going to move on
and we're going to talk about the Convolution.
So, what is a Convolution in intuitive terms?
Here on the left we have an Input Image as we discussed
that's how we're going to look at images just 1s and 0s
to simplify things, and you can see the smiley face there.
Then we've got a Feature Detector.
So Feature Detectors are three-by-three matrix.
Does it have to be three-by-three?
No it doesn't, Alex-Net I think uses seven-by-seven
and then some other, one of those other famous ones
uses like five-by-five Feature Detectors.
They can be different,
but usually you'll see that they are three-by-three
and there are, you know, reasons to make them three-by-three
so we're going to stick to the conventional way
having a three-by-three Feature Detector.
Also the Feature Detector's called,
these are important terms because you might come across them
there are many different terms for the Feature Detector
but the most common ones are Feature Detector
or you might hear it being called Kernel
or you might hear it being called Filter.
So in this course we are going to be using
either Filter or Feature Detector interchangeably,
but just bear in mind that it has those names.
And a Convolutional operation is signified by an X
in a circle just as you saw on the formulas before.
And here what happens is on an intuitive level,
or just to think of it
in terms of what is actually happening in the background
rather than the mathematics,
well you take this Feature Detector, or Filter,
and you put it on your image like you see on the left
so you cover the, for instance in this case,
the top left-corner, the 9 pixels in the top left-corner
and you basically multiply
each value by each value
so respective values, so the top 0 by,
the top-left value by the top-left value, then basically
position number 1-1 by position number 1-1
or 0-1 by 0-1, 0-2 by 0-2 and so on.
So it's element-wise multiplicational these matrices.
And then you add up the results.
So in this case nothing matches up,
so it's always either 0 by 0, or 0 by 1
so the result is 0.
Here, you can see that one of them matched up
the one on the left matched up and therefore we've got a 1.
Here nothing matched up, nothing matched up,
nothing matched up, here we move onto the next row.
And the step at which we're moving this whole Filter
is called the stride.
So here we have a stride of 1 pixel
so here you can see again something matched up
the bottom right corner matched up.
The stride, bottom one in the middle matched up.
Here top right one matched up, then nothing matched up.
The stride is 1, you can change the stride
you can make it one, 2, you can make it 3
whatever you like.
Conventionally, the one that works well is usually at 2,
so that's what people stick to
and we'll talk about what the stride is
towards the end of this tutorial.
So here we've got, we're matching up,
oh here you can see we've got a two,
because two of them matched up.
And so on, and so on, so on, and there we go
there's another one that matched up.
There we go, and then we're done.
So, what have we created,
right?
A couple of important things here.
The image on the right is called a Feature Map.
Also has several terms,
it also can be called sometimes a Convolved Feature.
So when you apply Convolution Operator to something
it doesn't become convoluted it becomes convolved,
and yeah sometimes I like
I think to myself in the wrong way,
but it's the correct term is convolved.
It's a Convolved Feature
or it can also be called the Activation Map,
but we're going to be calling it a Feature Map
in this course.
So it can be called any one of those things.
And, what have we done here?
Well, as you can see we've reduced the size of the image
that's number one,
and that's the important thing I wanted to mention
about your input image and the Feature Detector
and the stride, right, that if you have a stride of 1
you can see the image reduced a bit.
But if you have a stride of 2
the image is going to reduce more
so the Feature Map is going to be even smaller,
and that's a very important function of the Feature Detector
of this whole Convolution step
is to make the image smaller
because it'll be easier to process it
and it'll be just faster,
it will be just faster
because imagine, like here we've got a, what, a 7-by-7 image
but imagine if you have a proper photo, right,
or you have like a 256-by-256 pixel image
that's a huge number of pixels, like 256 squared.
Or like, let's say, you have 300-by-300 pixels,
so we don't get confused with the RGB 256,
let's just say like we have a 300-by-300 image
in terms of size and pixels.
Then you have 300 squared number of pixels
that's a huge number, and therefore Feature Detectors
will reduce the size of the image
and therefore stride of 2 has actually been official.
But then the question is do we lose information?
Are we losing information
when we're applying the Feature Detector?
Well, some information we are losing, of course,
because we have less values in our resulting matrix
but at the same time the purpose of the Feature Detector
is to detect certain features,
certain parts of the image that are integral.
And so, for instance, if you think about it this way
like the Feature Detector has a certain pattern on it.
The highest number in your Feature Map
is when that pattern matches up.
In fact the highest number you can get is,
in our simplified example,
is when the feature matches exactly.
And you can see with that number 4
we have in our Feature Map, that's exactly
so if you look over here,
that's exactly where this Feature Detector
because there's only four 1s in it, matched perfectly.
So you can see this part over here,
so the feature was detected here.
And as we discussed at the very start of this section
features is how we see things, is how we recognise things.
We don't look at every single pixel, so to speak,
in what we see on an image or in real life
we don't look at every single pixel we look at features
we look at the nose, the hat, the feather,
the eyes under
or the little black marks under the cheetah's eyes
to distinguish it between a cheetah and a leopard,
or the shape of the train
to distinguish it between a bullet train and normal train.
And so on, so we don't look at everything
we look at features and that's what we're preserving,
and that's what the Feature Map helps us preserve, actually
that's what it, it allows us to bring forward
and get rid of all the unnecessary things that
even as humans we don't process,
there's so much information going into your eyes
at any given time, like gigabytes of information
if you look at every single dot,
if not terabytes of information
going into your eyes per second.
And still, we're able to process that
because we get rid of what is unnecessary
we only focus on the important features,
features that are important to us.
And that is exactly what the feature map does.
So now, moving on, this is out Input Image
and you, we create a Feature Map.
So the front one,
let's say the front one is the one we just created,
but then how come there is many of them.
But we create multiple Feature Maps
because we use different filters, right,
and that's another way
that we preserve lots of the information
so we don't just have one Feature Map,
we look for certain features and then,
or basically the network decides through its training,
and this is something we'll discuss
towards the end of the section, through its training
it decides which features are important
for certain types or certain categories
and it looks for them,
and therefore it'll have different filters.
And we'll talk about filters just now.
But basically it'll apply these filters,
so to get this Feature Map it applied a filter
like with the one we saw.
But then to get this Feature Map
it applied a different filter.
To get this Feature Map it applied a different filter.
And so on.
So basically it just creates these Feature Maps
and actually that's why personally
I think the term Feature Detector is better than Filter.
So remember over here we have this Filter
which we also can call a Feature Detector.
Well actually the word Feature Detector
I think is better suited
and the reason for that is that's what the purpose is, right
we don't want to just filter our image,
but even though that's the same,
it's just a question of terminology,
but basically we want to detect features alright.
In this layer we're going to,
or in this Feature Map
we've detected where certain features are in the image.
In this Feature Map
we've detected where certain other features are,
where a certain specific feature is located.
In this Feature Map we've detected where
a certain other feature is located on the image.
So that's what we're doing.
And let's have a look at a couple of examples,
so here we're using,
and this is from gimp.org
their documentation it's a free kind of tool like paint
and you can use it to adjust you images
or work with your images
but basically they have some valuable examples
in their documentation
and here they have a picture of the Taj Mahal
and you can choose which filter you want to apply.
So if you download this program
and you upload a photo into it and then
you can actually start a Convolution Matrix
and apply filters and you will see that these things,
these Convolution Matrices actually applied
in image processing and designed and so on.
So let's have a look at what we get.
So if we apply this filter, 5 in the middle,
minus 1, minus 1, minus 1, minus 1,
you can see that it sharpens the image and,
yeah so this is,
it's quite intuitive
if you think of it so 5 is the pixel, the main pixel like
in the middle of the filter, or the Feature Detector.
And then minus 1, minus 1, minus 1
just so you just kind of like reduces the pixels around it,
in an intuitive sense.
Then Blur, so basically it takes equal significance,
it gives equal significance to all of the pixels
around the one in the center
and therefore it combines them together and you get a blur.
Edge Enhance, so here you can see that's minus 1 and 1
and you get 0s right, so you delete,
remove the pixels around the main one in the middle
and you only keep this one at a minus 1
and it gives you an edge.
This one's a bit harder to understand how it works
like probably harder just to think of it intuitively.
Edge Detect, right, so this one probably makes more sense
right you take the middle one, you reduce the middle one
probably like the strength of the middle pixel
and then you look for the 1s, you look for these 1s
you increase the strength of the 1s around them
so you have the 1s there.
Yeah so that gives you like an Edge Detection
that you can see once you get there.
Emboss, another one
so the key here is that
it's asymmetrical
and you can see the image becomes asymmetrical as well
so you got that like kind of feeling
that it's standing out towards you
and that's what you get when you have like
minuses here and pluses here.
Again this is very, this is getting a bit technical now,
but at least we can get some kind of intuitive understanding
let's just go quickly through them again.
There's Sharpen, there's Blur, there's Edge Enhance
there's Edge Detect, there's Emboss.
And so as you can see
these are great examples of the same image
but we're getting Feature Maps,
so we use different Feature Detectors
to get different Feature Maps of the same image,
and therefore now we have lots of versions of this image
where in each one we've tried to detect certain things.
These terms they're not applicable to us,
like Emboss is probably not applicable to us
in terms of Convolutional Neural Networks,
but Edge Detect that's important we want to detect the edges
Edge Enhance probably not, Blur, Sharpen,
so certain things like Edge Detect
is probably the most important one for our type of work
and in terms of understanding
like computers they will decide for themselves
Neural Network will decide for itself
what's important what's not
and it probably won't even recognizable to the human eye
you won't be able to understand what those features mean
but the computer will decide
and that's the beauty of Neural Networks
that they can process so many different things
and understand without even having that intuition
without having that explanation why
they will understand which features are important to them.
Whether we have a name for them or not
that's a whole, that's an irrelevant question
for the Convolutional Neural Network.
And my favorite one, here's an image of Geoffrey Hinton
a photo of Geoffrey Hinton
passed through
one of these filters.
Alright so that brings us to the end of today's tutorial.
I hope you enjoyed learning about Convolution.
The key take away is that Convolution,
the primary purpose of a Convolution
is to find features in your image
using the Feature Detector, put them into a Feature map
and by having them in a Feature Map
it still preserves the spacial relationships between pixels
which is very important for us
because if they're completely jumbled up
then we've lost the pattern.
And at the same time it's important to understand
that most of the time the features
a Neural Network will detect and use
to recognize certain images and classes
will mean nothing to humans, but nevertheless they work.
And that's what Convolution is,
and I look forward to seeing you on the next tutorial.
Until then, enjoy Deep Learning.